document loading modules (#94)
wlanslovenija/tunneldigger: docs/server.rst

.. _history: https://github.com/wlanslovenija/tunneldigger/blob/master/HISTORY.rst

Operating System
----------------

The first thing you need is a recent (>= 2.6.36) Linux kernel that supports L2TPv3
tunnels.

> These distributions are supported:

Reviewer: It's not that tunneldigger doesn't work on other distributions, it's just that we don't have instructions. Maybe reword this to say that? Something like "The following instructions should work for these distributions:"

Author: 26bd3b3 addresses this.

* Debian
* Fedora with the package ``kernel-modules-extra``
* *add your distribution*

Kernel Modules
--------------

The following modules are required for Tunneldigger operation:

* ``l2tp_core``
* ``l2tp_eth``
* ``l2tp_netlink``

Kernel Module Activation on Boot
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For the activation of the kernel modules, we recommend adding a file
``/etc/modules-load.d/tunneldigger.conf`` with the following content:

.. code:: shell

    l2tp_core
    l2tp_eth
    l2tp_netlink

Manual Activation of the Kernel Modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can also activate the modules using ``modprobe``.

> A restart will load the kernel without them if you do not create the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A system restart will *not* load the modules again if you do not create the file as described above.
```

.. code:: shell

    $ sudo modprobe l2tp_core
    $ sudo modprobe l2tp_eth
    $ sudo modprobe l2tp_netlink

Check if Modules are Loaded
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can find out if these modules are loaded by running ``lsmod | grep l2tp``.
If you get no output, they are not activated.
If the modules were loaded successfully,
your listing of the modules might look like this:

.. code:: shell

    $ lsmod | grep l2tp
    l2tp_eth               16384  0 
    l2tp_netlink           24576  1 l2tp_eth
    l2tp_core              32768  2 l2tp_eth,l2tp_netlink
    ip6_udp_tunnel         16384  1 l2tp_core
    udp_tunnel             16384  1 l2tp_core

Additional Notes About Kernel Modules
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Also, if you want to have working bandwidth limits, the kernel must support traffic
shaping and the HTB queuing discipline, together with ``fq_codel``.

The system should be configured to load these modules at boot which is usually done

> by listing the modules in ``/etc/modules``.

Reviewer: This should be changed to recommend adding them to the file above. Or maybe just add them right there in the docs?

Author: (1) Until now, I do not understand this:

> Also, if you want to have working bandwidth limits, the kernel must support traffic
shaping and the HTB queuing discipline, together with ``fq_codel``.

(2) And to me, this

> The system should be configured to load these modules at boot which is usually done
by listing the modules in ``/etc/modules``.

looks like a duplication of the *Kernel Module Activation on Boot* Section and can be removed.

Reviewer 2: fq_codel is the default qdisc for any newer Distribution running systemd. So it's mostly built into the kernel on those distributions. If not it will appear as a kernel module called sch_fq_codel.
Again, I see no need to explicitly state how to create backwards compatibility here since every major distribution has this by default. If you are running a very old and unsupported release of a distribution like Fedora 21, which is now over 4 years old, you probably have a good reason for that and an understanding of how to backport changes to make stuff work. Just mentioning fq_codel in this case will give you enough hints to successfully google a solution to your problem. The tunneldigger documentation shouldn't be the place to teach people how to perform basic Linux administration tasks.
Other than that I do really appreciate the clarity that is being added to the documentation on the other parts. Nice job @niccokunzmann!

Author: @kaechele Thanks! I wonder: We could make a section which states what old (4years+) or self-built kernels need in order to run Tunneldigger. If I can read that as a precondition for the section, I can skip this section in normal mode. Would anyone of you appreciate movong the other deleted content to that section?

Reviewer: I think removing it is just fine.

Do you want to remove the mention of `/etc/modules` here, or should I merge and then do it?

-------------

The first thing you need is a recent (>= 2.6.36) Linux kernel that supports L2TPv3
tunnels.

These distributions are supported:

* Debian
* Fedora with the package ``kernel-modules-extra``
* *add your distribution*

Kernel Modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following modules are required for Tunneldigger operation:

* ``l2tp_core``
* ``l2tp_eth``
* ``l2tp_netlink``

You can find out if these modules are loaded by running ``lsmod | grep l2tp``.
If you get no output, they need to be activated.
For the activation of the kernel modules, we recommend adding a file

> ``/etc/modules-load.d/tunneldigger.conf`` with the following content:

Reviewer: People should just always add that. Just because `lsmod` lists these now, doesn't mean they will still be there after a reboot or after some unrelated configuration changed.

Author: 4cddd02 restructures this and puts the activation first

.. code:: shell

    l2tp_core
    l2tp_eth
    l2tp_netlink

You can also activate the modules using modprobe.
A restart will load the kernel without them if you do not create the file.

.. code:: shell

    $ sudo modprobe l2tp_core
    $ sudo modprobe l2tp_eth
    $ sudo modprobe l2tp_netlink

> Then, your listing of the modules can look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the modules were loaded successfully, your listing of the modules can look like this:
```

Author: Wow, how do you add this suggestion?

Reviewer: Magic. ;)

When adding in-line comments in a PR, there's a button above the text box that looks like a document icon with "+ -" in it. That lets you write in-line suggestions that you can accept directly in the web UI.

.. code:: shell

    $ lsmod | grep l2tp
    l2tp_eth               16384  0 
    l2tp_netlink           24576  1 l2tp_eth
    l2tp_core              32768  2 l2tp_eth,l2tp_netlink
    ip6_udp_tunnel         16384  1 l2tp_core
    udp_tunnel             16384  1 l2tp_core

In addition the kernel must support network address translation via netfilter,
otherwise the tunnels will not work as Tunneldigger uses translation to achieve

> that all tunnels operate over the same external port.

Reviewer: There is no distro wirth mentioning that does not support netfilter, right?

I think I'd like to see this and the next 2 paragraphs removed. They are just confusing people by pointing out a problem that is extremely unlikely to exist.

Author: 1d208e5 covers this
